tags: data-structures graphs

"How do we define a graph mathematically?";
"A graph is an ordered pair of a set of nodes and a set of edges connecting those nodes."

"What is the difference between a directed and undirected graph?";
"Directed edges have an origin and a destination node, while undirected edges can be traversed in either direction. An undirected edge is equivalent to two directed edges, with inverse origin and destination nodes. In an undirected graph, all edges are undirected, whereas a directed graph contains directed edges. A mixed graph contains both directed and undirected edges."

"What is the difference between a weighted and unweighted graph?";
"In a weighted graph, each edge is assigned a number, called its weight. The weight can be used to represent distance, capacity, relatedness, etc. Weighted graphs are also known as networks."

"Give an example of a weighted directed graph.";
"A Markov chain is an example of a weighted directed graph, where the weighting represents the likilhood that a given word will follow another."

"Give an example of a weighted undirected graph.";
"A graph representing the number of times various actors have costarred in a film together would be a weighted undirected graph."

"Give an example of a unweighted directed graph.";
"A semantic graph is a labeled directed graph where nodes represent words and edges represent their semantic relation (for example, a cat is a type of mammal)."

"Give an example of a unweighted undirected graph.";
"A Delaunay triangulation is an unweighted undirected graph connecting a set of points such that no point is inside the circumcircle of any triangle of connected points."

"What makes a graph a simple graph? What attributes would make it not simple?";
"A simple graph is an unweighted, undirected graph with neither loops nor multiple edges."

"What is the maximum number of edges in an undirected simple graph?";
"In a simple undirected graph of n vertices, the degree of every vertex is at most n-1."

"What is the maximum number of edges in a directed simple graph?";
"In a simple directed graph of n vertices, the degree of every vertex is at most n(n-1)."

"Describe the levels of connectivity a graph can have (strongly connected, weakly connected).";
"A graph is connected when there is a path between every pair of vertices. In a connected graph, there are no unreachable vertices. A graph that is not connected is disconnected. A graph is said to be disconnected if there exist two nodes in it such that no path has those nodes as endpoints. A graph with just one vertex is connected. An edgeless graph with two or more vertices is disconnected."

"What are cycles?";
""

"What are some naive ways we can store and traverse graphs? Be able to discuss time/space complexity of these approaches, and what issues we may face.";
""